# carpe-diem
A Kanban Board made with a Flask back-end and fornt-end vanilla HTML + CSS

## why though?
I was first introduced to the idea of a kanban board during my work placement at Accenture. It was used daily at every team briefing; it was an extremely useful way of getting the team organised and served as a visual reminder of what tasks needed to get done. There were times where my individual board got excruciatingly long, so long in fact that some members in my team saw this list and were kind enough to offload some tasks - that's when I learnt the beauty of kanban boards. It's perfect in a collaborative environment as the team can see what everyone else does and provide insights if need be. Persoanlly, it also helped me to get miuch more organised, especially since I had a very bad habit of taking mental notes in my head but forgetting to do them a while after. With a task written out infront of you, especially with a due date creates urgency and prompts you to take action.

## but why not?
And this is how the carpe diem kanban was born! A very low-level and unsophisticated version of the superior Jira by Atlassian. Though Jira was built with React, I built mine using Python, namely Flask, as I am much more experienced in Python than I am in Javascript, let alone React. But this is not to say I didn't learn anything along the way. In fact, I took up this project as a challenge to myself! I wanted to become more comfortable with front-end languages, specifcally CSS especially since that makes the website come alive. I was also introduced to the AGILE methodology; I spent time meticulously planning every detail and feature of my website using the Figma tool. Then I proceeded to planning the HTML backbone, added colour with CSS, but after much indecision went back to the planning phase to make improvements. My frustrations really came when it got to the Flask side of things; there were many packages that I had to familiarise myself with - that involved searching on StackOverflow relentlessly and reading documentation over and over again until I understood it. It was a very long process to say the least but this experience has just made my knowledge even stronger...
